SOUTHEAST ASIA

It's been a popular route for lots of travelers who begins a life on the road, gap year, or just wanted to travel for quite a while. Southeast Asia has been a backpackers haven and still is up to now. The interlocked territories (except Indonesia, Brunei, and Philippines) as well as budget airlines in Asia makes it a lot easy and affordable to navigate through this territory. Additionally, the cost of living makes accommodation, food, and transportation affordable; one can do and experience so much.

Before 2016 ends, I decided to travel a bit longer but not a long one. (From employee standards here in the Philippines, mine is considered a long one. ) And being a popular destination for travelers, I've chosen Southeast Asia and traveled for 23 days from Singapore to Vietnam. Overnight buses, trains, slow boat, and flights; it was the best trip I've had. I do recommend traveling around the region and experience backpacking around multiple countries. 

Here are the 11 cities that I've visited during the 23 day journey:

1. SINGAPORE

When thinking about traveling to Singapore, I thought that it would be expensive. I mean, the cost of living and how modern it is, I seriously prepared a budget plan for it. While Southeast Asian standards put Singapore as the most expensive place, it's not that costly after all especially if you know where to look for inexpensive options. Kallang and Bugis are good options when looking for a place to stay. When dining, there are loads of cafes and mini restaurants that serve tasty cuisines at an affordable price.  

Singapore probably has to be the most progressive and advanced nation in Southeast Asia. And a lot of the attractions are modern architectures and man made gardens. But let's not also forget that it is a melting pot from different cultures, thus there are attractions that are related to a tradition. 

Below are the following places that I've been to:

1. Supertree Grove - This gigantic treelike structure garden covered in plants was my favorite spot in Singapore. Some of the trees also harness solar energy that is used during the evening light show.

2. Chinese and Japanes Garden - Both gardens display beautiful and well designed gardens that reflect traditional styles from both countries. 

3. Merlion - A trip to Singapore is never complete without stopping by at this fish-lion structure located on the opposite side of the Marina Bay Sands. Probably an emblem of Singapore tourism, it is a must visit for every traveler. 

4. Sri Mariamman Temple - An important place of worship for hindus. 

I've only stayed in Singapore for two days which I wish I could have stayed long, but I had to move to Kuala Lumpur. When traveling to KL, I took two separate buses. One from Queen Street to Larkin Terminal in Johor Bahru, and another going to Kuala Lumpur. I find this a lot cheaper than taking a direct one from Singapore. 

2. KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA

I arrived in Kuala Lumpur after 8 hours. The checkpoint in Woodlands was quite busy as some Malaysian cities working in Singapore had to return. When thinking about Malaysia, I always thought about the place being culturally diverse.  And it does given the traces of Chinese and Indian culture that I've seen. Malaysia is less expensive as opposed to Singapore. Food prices and fare are somewhat equal to those that I've paid in Singapore but currency equivalent makes Malaysia more affordable. Additionally, there are loads of affordable hostels and guesthouses in Bukit Bintang and KL Sentral which are central locations and makes it easier to access local transport and some attractions.

The weather and transfer from Singapore got to me and I felt exhausted. Honestly, I wasn't able to explore Kuala Lumpur the way I wanted it to. But I planned to return to this city. Below are the places that I've been to:

1. Batu Caves - It was quite disappointing not because I did not like the attraction but the timing was off. The golden statue of Lord Murugan was under repair so as some areas of the cave and the entrance. 

2. Petronas Towers - The tower was really tall. Everyone had their creative and not so comfortable way of taking a beautiful shot of the identical skyscrapers. But it is a beautiful view at night when the whole building is glowing. 

3. Thean Hou Temple - is among the oldest Buddhist temple.

I've only stayed in Kuala Lumpur for 2 days since I had to catch up with the Lantern Festival in Chiang Mai. It was a must experience celebration in Thailand that I do not want to miss. Thus, I had to fly through Air Asia to Bangkok and take an overnight bus to Chiang Mai. 

3. CHIANG MAI, THAILAND

Thailand is an inexpensive destination in Southeast Asia and you can do a lot even with a small budget. It was already morning when I arrived in Chiang Mai and the town feels quaint and chill. Despite it being a well visited town due to the many activities, it did not feel busy at all. The charming old town reminded me of my hometown and I totally love the whole vibe.  Food is inexpensive in Chiang Mai especially at the night market. When getting around, go in groups if you plan to visit Royal Park or Wat. And going around the old town, I recommend renting a bicycle. 

The Lantern Festival is held annually to coincide with the full moon. At the time of my visit, it was an unfortunate year for Thailand as they lost their king. There were calls to halt the activity but it was still held in Chiang Mai, though not as grand as it would've been. The river, sky, and alleys were lit with colorful and bright lanterns though, and it was still an event to be remembered. 

Here are some places that I've visited in Chiang Mai:

1. Wat Phra Singh - It was the closest temple from the guesthouse that I am staying at and it was absolute gleaming with golden roofs and pagodas. 

2. Chiang Mai Saturday Market - There are load in Thailand and this one is located within the Old Town of Chiang Mai. Lots of food and apparel options and they're very affordable as well. 


4. CHIANG RAI, THAILAND




5. LUANG PRABANG, LAOS


6. VIENTIANE, LAOS
7. BANGKOK, THAILAND
8. AYUTTHAYA, THAILAND
9. SUKHOTHAI, THAILAND
10. SIEM REAP, CAMBODIA
11. HO CHI MINH, VIETNAM
