BACKPACKING IN SOUTHEAST ASIA

Southeast Asia is a popular route among travelers, backpackers, and those who wanted to travel for a longer period. The interlocked territories (except Brunei, Philippines, and Indonesia) implementing border controls make it easier to transfer from one country to another. Additionally, the cost of living especially in Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam are considerably low thus making it very affordable to stay longer in these areas. 

Before the year 2016 comes to a conclusion, I wanted to travel more and this time for a longer period (23 days to be specific). Just a bit of information, employees in the Philippines typically receives 10 paid leaves a year. I've exhausted half of mine and being granted almost 25 days of vacation makes the trip a long one. I've chosen Southeast Asia obviously because of affordability, border transfer, and there's no need to secure a visa. This makes it a lot easier for me to plan.

Here are the six Southeast Asian countries that I've been to during the 23-day journey and some of the attractions that I have visited.

SINGAPORE

Singapore probably is the most advanced and progressive country in Southeast Asia. The towering skyscrapers, business centers,  and modern attractions; these just show how progressive the country is. By Southeast Asia standards, it's also the most expensive in comparison to it's neighboring countries and others within the region. And it does, though food, transportation, and accommodation are still within reach if you know where to go. It's a different story if you decide to live or work in this country.

Most of the attractions in Singapore are modern and man-made and all are pretty stellar. The contemporary design and perfect construction shows creativity. The Marina Bay Sands whose key feature is a boat structure on top is a well visited attraction. The Supertree Grove is very remarkable with it's OB Skyway connecting the gigantic treelike structure. Aside from those, there are places in Singapore that is culturally and traditionally significant such as the Buddha Tooth Relic Temple, Sri Mariamman Temple, and Masjid Sultan.

Here are among that places that I've liked:

1. Supertree Grove - This was my favorite attraction in Singapore. The tall gigantic tree-like structures covered with plants are simply beautiful especially at night during the light show. 

2. Merlion - Aside from being an emblem of Singapore tourism that makes this place a must visit, seeing how people are beign creative while taking shots was the most interesting. 

3. Chinese and Japanese - It was a perfect place to visit during early morning hours. Not much tourists around, thus a calm and peaceful stroll around a beautiful landscape.

4. Chinatown - When going for inexpensive souvenirs, head to Chinatown. Additionally, the place is also close to Buddha Tooth Relic Temple and Sri Mariamman Temple.

I've only stayed in Singapore for 2 days. Honestly, it's not a difficult city to navigate. A lot of the attractions are close to train and bus stations and there are markers that lead you to such places. It was a great experience  and I wish I could've stayed longer; but I had to travel to Kuala Lumpur.

MALAYSIA

Malaysia is a culturally diverse nation with Chinese, Indian, and Malay traditions being well alive. I travelled to Malaysia by bus and it took me around 7 hours to get to Kuala Lumpur. It's a beautiful urban city especially Bukit Bintang where the high end shopping malls and hotels are located. The prices are almost similar to that in Singapore. But the difference in currency makes Malaysia less expensive than the latter. 

Kuala Lumpur has loads of attractions that showcase their culture and tradition. Temples and mostly mosques are found within the city center.  You can also find places such as Petronas Towers and the KL Tower. But to be honest, I failed during my first visit in KL. I was tired from the bus transfer and the weather wasn't really nice, thus I ended end visiting only a few sites.

Here are among that places that I've liked:

1. Batu Caves - Although the golden statue of Lord Murugan was undergoing repairs, I still liked the interior of the caves. The rock formations on the ceiling was really beautiful.

2. Petronas Towers - This is a tall skyscraper which I loved visiting especially at night when it's lit. Additionally, people taking photos have their own ways to get a beautiful shot of this tower. Some looked uncomfortable while taking a photo of their friend or partner.

3. Thean Hou Temple - I liked the location as it is quite far from the busy streets of Kuala Lumpur. It's one of the oldest temple in Kuala Lumpur and I liked the multi-tiered roof and the elaborate pillars. 

I stayed in Kuala Lumpur for 2 days and I wish I can stay for another day to visit more of the city. However, I had to fly to Thailand for the Lantern Festival. With the limited time I spent, I was disappointed with myself but I promised to go back. So, I was back in Kuala Lumpur last July and I'm I did. I was able to visit mosques and monuments in Kuala Lumpur that I should've gone to when I first visited the city. 

THAILAND

Thailand is where I've stayed the longest. It's probably one of the countries in Southeast Asia that I'd love to visit everytime. Its very affordable to visit and I can do a lot even with a small budget and a lot more for an increased budget. The food, accommodation, and transportation, everything is within reach. Aside from that, the people are very welcoming and helpful. 

Being a Buddhist country, temples are everywhere. And a lot of them are well maintained and has turned into tourist attractions. The gleaming and decorative pagodas and stupas are really beautiful. You can also do some activities primarily in Chiang Mai like the flight of the Gibon or even visiting an elephant sanctuary. The elephant sanctuary in Chiang Mai may pose questions from other travelers in terms of ethical practice, but those that I've met who went there gave nothing but good comments. People get to interact with the elephant without riding on them and they weren't really chained and locked up. 

Here are some of the things and places that I loved in Thailand:

1. Lantern Festival - A must experience when visiting Thailand in November. The skies, river, and alleys are brightly glowing with different lantern. Dates vary so do check online as the final dates are announced a few months before the celebration. 

2. Pad Thai - Honestly, I never stopped eating this dish in Thailand. The taste was different from those that I tried at home. It felt more authentic especially when you buy from night markets and streets. 

3. White Temple - Although it was primarily built as an architectural piece, the White Temple in Chiang Rai is among the most stunning attractions in Thailand. The details, design, and construction of the temple was superb and some were strangely interesting. 

4. Sukhothai Historical Park - I'm always a fan of thing that relate to history and cycling around a compound of temple ruins in a verdant landscape was an adventure. One temple that was remarkable was a Hindu temple located within a Buddhist temple dominated location. 

5. Ayutthaya Temple Ruins - I've also visited Ayutthaya and did the same. Cycled around the temple ruins. Aside from the Buddha head entwined in tree roots, the three giant bell-shaped pagodas were the most interesting for me. 

6. Chiang Mai Old Town - I'll always stay here whenever I plan to visit Chiang Mai. Although it is a frequently visited destination, the town did not feel busy especially within the gates. It was quaint and calm.

7.  Wat Pho - The giant golden Buddha statue in a reclining position was the main highlight of the temple and it does look amazing. The size itself was just wow. Additionally, the supas around were beautiful with the elaborate details and decorations. 

I've been to Thailand twice during the 23-day journey. After Chiang Rai, I traveled to Laos and back to Thailand before heading to Cambodia. It was well worth it. I've been to so many places in Thailand, though there were times that the streets and alleys got confusing. 

LAOS

Instead of taking an 18-hour bus trip from Chiang Rai to Luang Prabang, I took the slow boat instead.  I'm glad that I did as it was a lot more fun and I met a lot of travelers. It took us around 2 days to reach Luang Prabang with an overnight stay in Pakbeng. The view during breakfast in the guesthouse was really nice and rural. The mekong river and mountain areas was just serene. Relatively, Laos is more expensive in comparison to it's neighbors such as Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam but still an affordable city to visit. A lot of the country's resources are export thus making the prices slightly higher. 

There are times when "love at first sight" happen when we arrive at a certain place. And it happen for me in Luang Prabang. I arrived at the city center and I felt that I am going to like the place. It was laid back and it's place to just take things slow and enjoy every moment. Unlike in some places that I've been to where everything is fast paced, Luang Prabang is the exact opposite. I've also visited Vientiane and it was slightly busier than Luang Prabang mainly because it is the country main hub for commerce and politics. 

Here are some of the things and places that I loved in Laos:

1. Kuang Si Waterfall - It's my favorite in Laos. The magical view of this three-tiered waterfall was just amazing. The loud gushing sound of the water as it cascaded down the rock and the forest surrouding it was breathtaking. 

2. Luang Prabang Night Market - This market is not as big as that of Chatuchak but there were a lot of interesting thing to get. Additionally, the food stall just right after the intersection is a place to go to. Pots of local cuisines are sold and they were really tasty. 

3. Patuxai Monument - It's often referred to as the Arch of Triumph in Asia. The monument was built to commemorate the lives of those who fought for Laos' freedom. 

4. Buddha Park - The park featured some eerie Buddha images. One is an octopus like image with small buddha statues at the end of its tentacles. Another is a giant pumpkin with its mouth wide open. 

Laos despite being impoverished is adorned with great natural views such as the Kuang Si Waterfalls and even the mountain ranges that you can see the area. It's definitely a place that I'd go to whenever I feel like disconnecting from the urban style of living and take time. Laos is also where I felt like families were connected. It's not just about the attractions but the lifestyle differences that was memorable. 

CAMBODIA

Siem Reap was the gateway to accessing the historical Angkor City. I arrived after 8 hours, from train to a mini-van; the transfer went smooth and not horrific as how some have told (maybe due to my Asian features). Siem Reap is another inexpensive place to go to. Streetfood and accomodation were really cheap. You can either use a US Dollar or a Khmer Riel. If you use US Dollars, you get you change in Riel. Additionally, 1 USD is equal to 4,000 KHR regardless of current currency exchange rates. 

The Angkor City is the main activity to do when visiting Siem Reap. Instead of doing a single day tour, I went for the two day trip. It was fun especially the full day tour or the long route as we went to the best places. The sunrise view at Angkor Wat was the best and it was worth waking up at 4 am just to witness this. The other temples were also interesting especially Ta Prohm Temple.

Here are some of my favorite during my tour in Angkor City:

1. Ta Prohm Temple - It famously know as the Tomb Raider temple as the film shot a scene in this location. But the best part of this temple are the tree roots climbing on top and crawling on the walls. It was really stunning.

2. Angkor Wat - I woke up at 4 o' clock in the morning with have of my sanity back. We need to be early to witness the sunrise view which was really incredible. The design of Angkor Wat as well was similar to that of Thailand's Wat Arun where a central prang is bordered by for smaller prangs.

3. Bayon Temple - One thing that I like about Bayon Tempe are the Buddha images carved on the towers. I couldn't remember how many towers were there but there were loads of Buddha faces. Really great place to check out.

4. Bantay Srei - One of the farthest location but worth visiting. It's a feminine temple and it was dedicated to women. The color and the design were impeccable. The symbolic carvings on the walls were something to study as well. 

Siem Reap and the whole Angkor tour was full of adventure, my legs were really sore after. Aside from the temple tour, I had fun eating around pub street. The noodles and snack were really inexpensive and tasty. I remember being with a couple from Chile and a guy from Argentina when going to Angkor Wat. Despite the language as they main spoke in Spanish, it was really nice being with them.

VIETNAM

It's where too many things are happening at once. After around 15 hours, I arrived in Ho Chi Minh. The journey from Siem Reap to Ho Chi Minh was quite longer than I expected but it went smooth unlike the stories that I've read where some ended up crying along the way (maybe I was just really lucky). Motorcycles are dominating the streets and it's like they go where they wish. Crossing the street is a test of focus. The food was also good, especially the pho or the noodles. It was really the best.

Just like Laos and Cambodia, Vietnam is also another nation that suffered the horrors of war in the past. The Vietnam War to be specific was completely unimaginable and horrific. Nowadays, Ho Chi Minh is continuing to move forward. Some of the attraction in this city tells a story of the war and other were traces of French influence. 

Here are some of the places that I've been to:

1. War Memorial Museum - Visiting this place, it felt heavy and somewhat emotional. After going around, I had to take a seat and mometarily process everything. It's not to grow hate towards a certain country but rather seeing the effects of war and that it only brings suffering and nothing positive.

2. Independence Palace - This place is where mostly international foreign affairs are held. Meetings, conferences, and rooms for the delegates were beautifully designed.

3. Post Office - Still functioning as one but the design has continued to attract tourists. The Romanque and European like construction was really impeccable. You can take a photo and send a post card from here.

Ho Chi Minh was probably the most challenging for me, although maps.me made it easy when it comes to navigation. But the language barrier was somewhat there. It wasn't easy trying to get help when needed. And yeah, I got scammed by a taxi driver. They take your 100,000 VND bill and replace it with 10,000 bill and ask you to pay full amount. So when going here, Grabcar is your best option or Mailin taxi.

CONCLUSION

Traveling for 23 days was such an experience. Being able to experience different cultures within that period was awesome. I thought I'd experience culture shock but it's not something to worry about. I've also met other travelers and has shared stories and moments with them. Southeast Asia as a destination, I highly recommend travelers to wander around this region. If six months is possible, go for it. 
 
