BANGKOK-KRABI

Thailand is among my favorite destinations in Southeast Asia.  I've been comfortable going around Thailand. Being able to go around come of the cities quite easily, the gleaming temples were splendid, celebrations like the Lantern Festival was stellar, and the locals were friendly and welcoming. Aside from those, I've also liked how affordable it is to travel around this country. The accommodation, food, and transportation; everything is within reach especially if you experience local. 

Aside from revisiting Bangkok, I also wanted to visit another city in Thailand. Being in the northern area such as Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai was fun and relaxing. Despite the frequest visit, it did not feel busy at all. However, I wanted to go somewhere different. This time, it was time to head to the southern region and explore the islands and beaches. Here's how I did my trip. 

BANGKOK REVISITED

I've been to Bangkok last November of 2016 and it was not fun as I had hoped for. I was completely templed out and exhausted. I've been to  6 cities before arriving in Bangkok by train and I've taken overnight buses and boats my whole self felt a bit weary after 14 days and I have about 10 days left. Aside from that, I've seen a lot of temples like Wat Phra Singh, Blue Temple, White Temple and seeing the top visited temples in Bangkok did not seem exciting. After checking out the Grand Palace and Wat Pho and unable to handle the busy bustling city, I escaped to Sukhothai and Ayutthaya. However, I knew at that time that I had to return to Bangkok and make sure that it is the first city to visit before a repeat happens.

I've travelled back to Bangkok last May 2018 and it was surely the first city in my itinerary. The experience was a lot better than the last time. Seeing the other temples, trying local cuisines, and checking out the modern attractions; I wish I had this drive back then. 

Here are some of the places that I've visited during my three-day stay in Bangkok.

Marble Temple
------------------------------------------
The first stop during my first day and I completely loved this place. It's not as elaborate as the other temples when it comes to the ceramics and ornaments. It's not as colorful as the others as well. However, the orange, marble, and gold color appeared royal and elegant along with the details of the roof. The whole complex was covered with marble; the floors and pillars. 

Loha Prasat
-----------------------------------
It was honestly disappointing not because of the temple itself, but because of the reworks that are being done. The spires of the iron castle even with the braces and covers looked really nice. Though I would have been a lot more fascinated by the whole structure if it was not beig repaired. 

Wat Arun
------------------------------------
This also another favorite temple in Bangkok. It's like Angkor Wat with the middle prang and those four surrounding it. It is also adorned with ceramics which gives it a beautiful shine in the morning. You'll also hear bell sounds especially when it's windy. Loads of bells are installed around for good luck.

MOCA
----------------------
The modern structure at the entrance got me hooked so I decided to check out this place. Aside from the entrance, the paintings and sculpture were really interesting. There were different issues and topics covered by different artists and the sculptures looked really well made. One sculpture in particular was made with kitchen utensils and it turned out beautiful.

I've also visited the Golden Mount which is a temple located on top of a small hill within Bangkok. The way to the top was quite long but getting a glimpse of the golden pagoda and view of the city was really nice. While weaving through the streets of Bangkok, I was also able to get a glimpse of the Democracy Monument and the Giant Swing. The EmQuartier which is stylish mall and Terminal 21 which was cool with its airport like theme are worth stopping by as well.


Here's how much I've spent in Bangkok:

Airfafre

I booked my flight with AirAsia and luckily they were on sale when I got my return ticket. 

Accommodation

I always stay in hostel or guesthouses in Bangkok. There are loads of good options in Khao San, Sukhumvit, and Bang Rak. I stayed in Old Town Hostel for 3 nights. The location was really nice. It's far from the busy streets and is a few minutes away from the train station and railway station.

Transportation

I've used loads of transportation options around Bangkok. I took the metro when going to pratunam, took the boat going to Wat Arun, used Bangkok Railways when traveling from airport and attractions nearby, and Grabcar when going to places not  close to train stations. 

Food Expenses

There are a lot of inexpensive food options and places to dine in Bangkok. I mainly ate at the cafe near the hostel where I was staying. I mostly ate pad thai, fried rice, and other rice meals.

Incidental Expenses

Some attractions in Bangkok requires tourists to pay an entrance fee. Entrance to MOCA was 250 THB and entrance fee to the Marble Temple was 50 THB. I also paid 50 THB each when entering the Golden Mount and Wat Arun. Aside from the entrance fees, Bangkok is hot and humid so of course I had to buy loads of water to stay hydrated.




